First Draft 
8/5/2011

Goal of the Game
================

Take over the galaxy by building up an empire and destroying the other
player.

(we can talk collaborative stuff later, or if there's also a requirement
that you achieve a certain level of tech or some such)


At Start
========

The galaxy starts with a set of Planets, and both players can see the full
map (they have good astronomical teams).

Each player starts off by owning a single planet (and they know the location
of the other player's start planet).  The planets are not "close" (so that
each player has to build up something of an empire before they could
consider wiping out their opponent).


Star Lanes
==========

The most efficient way to move large ships between planets is by way of star
lanes (building of which involves creating complex jump point machinery at
each end).  Note: it *is* possible to move between star systems other ways,
see below.

Potential star lanes exist between some (but not all) pairs of planets.
Those potential paths only becomes visible when a player reaches a planet at
either end (with a scout or other ship).  Only the player who reaches the
planet can see the potential star lane (it's a closely held secret of the
imperial exploratory forces).  However, once built, everyone can see it
(it's impossible to keep secret at that point).


Properties of Planets
=====================

A planet has: a habitability/terraforming level; a current population.

A planet can have: a shipyard where ships can be built (and possibly
repaired?).

Over time, the population of a planet grows, and the rate of growth is tied
to the habitability level.

At start, *only* the two origin planets have any population. But all other
planets discovered have varying degrees of habitability.

Planets produce tax revenue in proportion to two things:

 - Their population

 - The number of other planets within their empire that they can reach by
   star lanes

The second one means that players have an incentive to connect large graphs
of planets up by starlanes, and that other players can severely reduce tax
revenue by taking over a key planet that forms a bridge between two strongly
connected components of someone's empire graph (this feels like a nice model
of actual 19th century empires, where tiny islands in the middle of
nowehere, like Mauritius, became incredibly valuable and hard-fought,
because they sat astride major trade routes from Europe to the Orient).

(Alternately, we could tie it to, not just the # of planets in a component,
but the network diameter, which gives an incentive to build sprawling
empires, which are easier to disrupt, and I kind of like that tension, but
it may be hard for players to understand, without some cueing from the
interface.)


Technology
==========

There's a tech tree along 4 axes (with, for now, just points along each
axis, maybe later there's specific, named, targets)

 - Offense (ability for your ships to inflict damage on other ships +
   planets)

 - Defense (ability for your ships and planets to defend themselves against
   other ships)

 - Range (how far your ships can travel in a single turn)

 - Terraforming (to what degree, you can make a planet more habitable)

Each player starts low on all of those, with some randomness.  There's a law
of exponentially decreasing returns -- so it's far better to make a slow,
steady investment, then to try to pour a huge amount of money in all at once
(e.g. in any one turn, 10 credits gets you 1 point, 20 gets you 2 points, 40
gets you 3 points, 80 gets you 4, 160 gets you 5, etc).  (Spaceward Ho! had
that, I liked it)


Ship Types
==========
There are four distinct types of ships:

 - Scouts

These are fairly cheap, have almost no offense or defense, but can jump to
planets without using starlanes.  How far they can jump is determined by
the range tech axis.  


 - Colony Ships

These can only travel along starlanes, have basically no offense or defense,
but can begin habitation of an otherwise uninhabited planet.


 - Ships of the Line

These are expensive, can only move along star lanes, and have massively
powerful offense and defense.


 - Frigates

These are expensive, have modest offense, modest defense, but are able to
move without using starlanes.  Like scouts, their distance is controlled by
range, but they can't move as far as scouts.

So players face a choice: build a highly mobile force of slightly weaker
ships, or a sluggish but devastating force.

For ships moving along star lanes, any two planets so connected are 1 unit
apart.  So, basically, you can move all ship types quickly (though not
instantly) within your empire graph.  And you can move specialized forces
outside of the graph, much more slowly.



What Happens During Each Player's Turn
======================================

 - Review updates from action started during last turn

E.g. planets explored, star lanes completed, ships completed, tech
investments paying off, colonies established, revenue received.

And, I *think*, battles that took place (meaning, you don't see a battle
result until the turn after you send your ships to attack someone).


 - Move your ships around, scouting, launching attacks, starting colonies


 - Decide how to invest your revenue

    - Tech R&D along the various axes

    - Creating a new shipyard on a planet

    - Building ships at a shipyard

    - Terraforming planets

    - Building star lanes


